SNOLAB user facility

SNOLAB is Canada’s deep underground research laboratory, located in Vale’s Creighton mine near Sudbury, Ontario Canada. It provides an ideal low background environment for the study of extremely rare physical interactions. SNOLAB’s science program focuses on astroparticle physics, specifically neutrino and dark matter studies, though its unique location is also well-suited to biology and geology experiments. SNOLAB facilitates world-class research, trains highly qualified personnel, and inspires the next generation of scientists. SNOLAB strives to make science engaging and accessible to all audiences, and was thrilled to partner on this project that provides a new perspective on the search for dark matter. 
 
SNOLAB has a low background counting facility underground capable of providing assays and measurements for the user community. Currently, the facility provides services in gamma counting using ultra-low background germanium detectors, alpha counting using an XIA UltraLo1800 alpha counter, passive radon emanation, radon and thoron measurements with electrostatic counters and alpha-beta counters, X-ray Fluorescence (XRF) spectrometry, and general gamma spectroscopy. The facility offers consultation to experiments and projects and tests all materials for current and future experiments for radon emanation levels to ensure they do not interfere with the data collected.  
Within this framework, SNOLAB is investigating the possibility of developing an underground germanium crystal facility located at SNOLAB following the successful example of the germanium crystal facility at USD. Growing germanium crystal and having to capabilities to fabricate detector UG will reduce the cosmogenic radioactive background which is currently the limiting background for germanium crystal rare event searches.
